Hello folks!
This is Weekly Review #14.
Antoine and Milan are behind the camera,
but I'm really sorry that  Mathias is not here...
We'll do without him!
There are a lot of issues to deal with,
but I'll start with this one, because I think you like this channel since  you're watching!
Since you enjoy this channel, you should know that it nearly got deleted.
And I'll tell you why!
When you have a Youtube channel,
there are mechanisms that identify the contents on the platform, and it is normal.
When they identify contents that come from other sources,
let's say TF1 or BFM (French TV channels) for instance,
these mechanisms inform Youtube about it
because there are copyrights on these pictures, OK?
Usually, it's possible to find an amicable settlement,
because people like me need to access the contents about them.
Let me give you an example.
I announced my candidacy to the presidential election on TF1.
OK?
Well I couldn't use this content on Youtube.
So we talked in order to find an arrangement, because it would be stupid not to.
That's an example, but these are normal relations.
It's normal that things happen like that!
There are copyrights, some people worked on this, so it's normal.
But what is not normal is that such and such official medium - from the "officiality" (sic) -
invites you for an interview, so you use the video of the interview,
but instead of saying "Wait Mr. Mélenchon! You can't use this video!", they just don't tell you anything!
They just wait and call Youtube directly!
Any idea who did this to me?
You should know that after three warnings,
I don't know if they call it a 'protest' or a 'report' or whatnot,
but after three warnings, Youtube erases your channel!
Your channel no longer exists!
People who don't like me are not aware of it, but thankfully,
my staff and I are always in touch with Youtube executives, so we always find a solution,
but they don't know that!
Do you now who played this dirty trick?
Take a guess!
The public service!
It was France Inter! (French radio channel)
I posted two interviews at France Inter on my Youtube channel.
Do you think they called me to say "Don't do that Mr. Mélenchon!" ?
No, no! Not at all! They called Youtube directly twice!
They knew that a third warning would be the end of my channel.
France Inter tried to kill my Youtube channel!
Besides, the last time I was interviewed there, they made a rotten headline about this interview,
so let me tell you that from now on, my relations with this channel won't be so friendly!
They were absolutely disloyal!
Now I wanted to inform you because I know you won't like this
and I know you're going to do something about it, so it's up to you now.
These people should not think they can do whatever they want.
It's over now!
There are Youtube and alternative channels now!
Enough with that!
Let's move on to things I heard about during the week.
The best and funniest thing I heard in this electoral campaign...
Some, guys, are really sinister!
I already talked about them.
Mrs. Le Pen came up with the sinister idea of preventing foreigners' children from attending school.
But that was not the funniest thing.
The funniest thing was Mr. Fillon, who said in a TV show, with that air about him...
The guy talks like he built the pyramids! He's so serious!
He said: "Do you think France would have the internet without me?"
"With France-Telecom i privatized?"
He basically thinks that a company cannot work with civil servants!
He thinks France Telecom's employees were civil servants only!
But that's not true at all! France Telecom was more efficient when it was a public service.
It is less efficient now.
It is less creative technically.
If he doesn't have a clue what I mean, I'll explain to him how France Telecom let smart television technologies slip through their fingers,
through the fingers of Orange, France Telecom's new name.
I wanted to say this because we all deserve to have a good laugh when we hear such nonsense,
and if you care about internet freedom especially.
Now I want to tell you about Trump and the recent events about him in the USA.
I think many of you must have difficulties to understand the situation
because the information we got from the USA during the presidential campaign was worth nothing.
People in France got their information from their correspondents in the USA - when they had correspondents -
who got information from the two parties' top advisers, so in reality, their information was not reliable.
It's not with top advisers that you can see...
To begin with, if you're with top advisers on one side, you're not with the other side,
so you can't know what's really going on in the country.
For weeks, we were told that Mrs. Clinton was great and that clever people supported her,
and we were told that Mr. Trump was a sexist, racist, brutish lout - and that's true!
But still, he was outdoing her.
I already said this in a previous Weekly Review, so I wont' repeat myself.
Now Trump is the President,
but here, the media keep saying that Trump is a strange character - and that's true! -
and that he has peculiar relations with Russia.
That's what we have to understand clearly!
The propaganda-machine works as follows:
it still functions according to the policy the USA had until the election.
Until then, the policy of Obama and the Democrats consisted in saying that Russia was the devil,
and that the USA had to discuss with the Chinese - and it's not like they had a choice!
This was the way they worked.
They tried to besiege Russia by forming alliances with the former countries of the Eastern bloc one after the other.
This was their former policy.
To do that, North-Americans had done something that everyone seems to have forgotten now
although it was a huge event at the time.
Back when there was the USSR,
North-Americans formed an alliance with China against Russia,
because there was a split within the communist world at the time.
It was a huge event!
People said: "What? Capitalist America formed an alliance with China?"
Let me tell you that China was something at the time!
This kind of communism was of the most rustic style!
I'm telling you about this because you should know that contrary to what we are told nowadays,
North-Americans don't care who their allies are.
They just care about who they fight.
And until now, they fought the Russians.
And...
A lot of people in the USA say:
"This is absurd!"
"Why should we fight the Russians?
We have a lot of common interests".
"They're almost our neighbors with the Bering Strait"
"We love oil, shales gas, we do business together..."
All this is true!
Everyone seems to forget that Mr. Putin's Russia is a capitalist country!
It functions just as any other capitalist country!
There are oligarchs in Russia!
They are "important people" who run big companies and who control the press, just like in France!
In France, nine billionaires own 90% of the press, and in Russia, it must be ten billionaires... You got the point!
So both countries have many reasons to...
...objective reasons to get along, as some North-Americans say.
They say: "Our problem is not Russia, but China!"
Why is that?
It's because China, without doing anything - or rather by working a lot -
but what I mean is that they don't have any hegemonic or imperial policy,
and yet it has become more and more powerful and it has kept producing and producing
because everybody set up factories there to make production cheaper.
China therefore became the world's factory,
but don't believe it just produces parasols and sandals!
China produces 3/4 of computers in the world,
and all sorts of very sophisticated devices.
It has become a huge scientific and economic power!
You never hear about it, but China has a space station.
They constantly fly back and forth between the Earth and space, and their technology functions like clockwork!
Therefore, some Americans said:
"That's enough!""
"They produce everything!
They have us by the short hairs!"
"They compete with us!
Our factories move there!"
Well that's a lie, because they decided to move their factories there!
Besides, there are Chinese all over the USA who have their own companies.
Chinese companies are the leading companies in the world, and in the most advanced technical domains!
So some Americans say: "Enough! Let's stop this false quarrel with Russia! It is not a threat to our country!"
"We need to face the real economic problem: China!"
That's what Mr. Trump represents.
He represents a priority shift for North-Americans.
To Mr. Trump, Russia is not the real adversary, China is,
and in order to isolate the Chinese and have them by the short hairs, they need to get along with Russians.
Trump's presidency began with a very strong signal
that was well understood by specialists in international relations and that was largely echoed in the press.
He called the President of Taiwan.
It was the first incident you heard about.
You were told: "Jeez! He messed up! He doesn't even know Taiwan cannot be adressed like that!"
Because Taiwan is supposed not to exist in the UN Security Council.
Only the People's Republic of China is officially recognized.
Everyone knows that Taiwan cannot be treated like China,
the one and only China.
So when Trump called the President of Taiwan,
he knew it was a huge provocation.
It is as if he had called Marine Le Pen to get information on the French situation.
We would have thought:
"What is that all about?"
"Why did he call this woman who is not the President of her country instead of the President of the Republic?"
You understand?
Trump sent a signal. That's what happened.
However, this shift cannot be done just like that!
because there are 19 security agencies in the USA!
Did you hear that? 19!
You always hear about the CIA, the FBI or the NSA,
but there are lots of other agencies!
All these people are programmed, organized and trained to fight Russians!
Their specialists deal with Russia!
They deal with Russia's affairs, not China's!
They don't speak Chinese and they don't care about China.
I don't mean to say that they're ignorant because that's not the issue here.
They can learn a lot of things when they need to!
But since the Cold War, they've been organized to fight Russia.
Their problem is Russia.
They got their hands dirty up to the sleeves!
They did it by having ten countries from the former Eastern Bloc join NATO.
Then they set missile defense devices in Poland and other countries,
and they're always exciting all the anti-Russian countries who are hardwired to hate Russia.
Their relation with Russia has always been very difficult.
I'm talking about countries like the Baltic  states.
So the USA progressed and tried to undermine Ukraine,
where they installed Nazis in the government,
and people who don't even hide who they are.
For instance, the Minister of Finance who was American until recently suddenly became Ukrainian
before becoming the Minister of Finance!
So they really got their hands dirty up to the sleeves in fighting and threatening Russia.
And of course, this created a very tense situation in Europe,
so much so that European leaders are at their wit's end!
There are two country categories in Europe.
There's France on the one hand, who has an independent history and who progressively aligned with the USA,
and on the other hand, there are all the other countries, who have always lived under the USA's nuclear umbrella
and who have always agreed with the USA's decisions, whatever these decisions were.
And it's still true!
They're running like headless chickens, voting motions in the EU Parliament against Russia.
They could almost be capable of advocating war on Russia!
They proposed to create a European army, a European Defense project, even though I don't know they want to protect themselves against,
because all they do is done in opposition to Russia, who is in no way a threat to our security!
Usually, when you say that Russians aren't our enemies, writing automatons and speaking teleprompters
immediately call you Putin's best friend and say you go camping with him on holiday etc.
That's what they said about me for weeks and weeks!
But if we refuse to align with one side or the other,
meaning we don't agree with Russia or the USA as soon as they said something,
if we refuse to align ourselves with them as I do when we think, then we should understand the situation.
We have to take advantage of this situation, but to do what?
To avoid war, because we don't want a war in Europe!
They are progressively paving the way for war!
While Mr. Trump said they should take care of China,
the USA landed US troops and tanks in Europe.
The troops that just landed in Europe are neither Chinese nor Russian!
They are North-American, and they landed with their war equipment!
And Europeans think it's great!
Such is the situation today, and this is very dangerous!
American security agencies are quarreling with the newly elected president,
and this is a toxic situation!
The guy was just elected president, but he is challenged by the security services of his own country!
If you think about it, it means that these agencies are becoming so powerful
that they allow themselves to challenge the election of their president!
Such is the situation in the USA today, and it is very dangerous!
These people are capable of doing anything!
They're capable of provoking a major crisis in Europe in order to say Russia is the problem!
The situation we're in is dangerous, and I wanted to provide you with these elements
so that you can understand how risky the situation is in Europe, and how it could degenerate
and lead us to something that we don't want.
I did my part. I analyzed and explained the situation.
My analysis isn't the Disney story you are used to hear.
Now that you heard it, maybe your opinion will be similar to mine,
and maybe you will be on the lookout and explain what's going on to the people you know.
I cannot conclude without mentioning something that upset me a lot.
I want to tell you about the results of the CAC 40, that is, the 40 most important companies of our country.
They just set a new record of dividend distribution.
Dividends are financial bonuses that are given to people who own shares in a company.
They usually own lots of them!
Their bonuses are as high as they were before the subprime crisis.
Did your me? Before the crisis!
The crisis is still a reality for you, but for them, it's over!
The dividend distribution is as high as it was when it all collapsed because of their way of running the economy.
That alone is scandalous
because it's a lot of money for the same people.
But there's something even more scandalous in their way of doing.
It is what we call the repurchase of shares.
Last year, shareholders bought back more than 5 billion € of their own shares.
Let me explain to you.
Their own money...
Which means there was some work, business was good, they made benefits...
So they took this money, and they bought back their own shares with it.
What was the result of this?
The stock price of their own company increased. Got it?
So their holdings increased.
If you owned shares that were worth 100 in the beginning,
well all of a sudden, they're worth 103, 104, 105 or 106.
It is as if you added a part to your house, and then another one, and then another one,
and in the end, you turn your house into a big house or a castle.
It's the same.
So they had 5 billion €, and now they have 9 billion €.
Did you hear that folks?
9 billion € that were produced by the employees of these companies!
These 9 billion € could be used to pay wages.
They could be used to buy less polluting machines or better quality material to pollute less.
They poured these 9 billion € down the drain.
Or more exactly, they poured this money down their drain!
Remember this everytime your hear about these people
who are supposed to rule the world and to be useful, who "know what's good", "that's the market" bla bla.
They're just a bunch of gangsters who waste money by keeping it for themselves
instead of sharing it with those who produced this money!
Remember this!
If this world is so corrupt, it's because they rule it!
I'll conclude by thanking those who give me a hand, or rather the blue thumbs up,
because thanks to them, we really hit a home run!
We are now 163,000 subscribers, and if other people want to join us, just do it.
Above all, I noticed that you were quick to react, because the last time,
I said it would be a good thing if those of you who agree with me could support my candidacy to the presidential election.
The petition is online on the website jlm2017.fr
I noticed that two days after the broadcasting of this Weekly Review, 3 to 4,000 people signed the petition.
So thank you everyone, because... I mean I speak to a camera.
I hear about your reactions because I read your comments,
but the way I know real people are watching is that you give me the blue thumbs up, that you subscribe,
and the fact that those who appreciate what I say answer my call.
So thank you everyone and... subscribe!